Choclate Cake

firstly, in a large mixing bowl take 1 cup of condensed milk.furthermore, add ¾ cup unsalted butter which is at room temperature. you can also use salted butter, make sure to skip salt later.with the hand blender or whisk beat in one direction till the mixture turns smooth and fluffy.also sieve, 1½ cup of maida, 3 tbsp of unsweetened cocoa powder, ¾ tsp of baking soda, 1 tsp of baking powder and ¼ tsp of salt.then fold gently without disturbing the air bubbles.furthermore add vinegar (optional – helps for more soft and spongy cake) also add vanilla extract to enhance the chocolate flavour.then add warm milk and start to mix.mix gently and add more milk if required.also make sure the batter is of smooth dropping consistency.meanwhile, preheat the oven to 180°c for 10 minutes and transfer the cake batter to a cake mould. make sure to line a butter paper at the bottom of tray to prevent from sticking.spread the cake batter with the help of spatula.and also tap twice to level up uniformly and remove any air bubbles if present.bake the cake at 180 degree celsius or 356 degree fahrenheit for 25 to 35 minutes. to bake in microwave or cooker check out the notes section below.to check the cake has baked completely, always insert a toothpick at the centre and see if it comes out clean. else bake for 5 more minutes.cool down the cake completely. also transfer the cake to cooling rack to cool faster.

chocolate frosting recipe: firstly, in a large mixing bowl take take half cup of butter at room temperature.furthermore, beat the butter till it turns smooth and fluffy.then add ½ cup of unsweetened cocoa powder.also add 2 cups powdered sugar / icing sugar. ( suggest you to stick to icing sugar as they do have a small proportion of corn starch which prevents from melting) additionally add a tsp of vanilla extract to enhance the chocolate flavour. finally add ¼ cup of cold milk. beat till the mixture turns smooth and spreadable. if the frosting turns too thick, beat in more milk, a few drops at a time. if frosting becomes too thin, beat in a small amount of powdered sugar.

decorating chocolate cake recipe: firstly, place a baked cake on turning table. furthermore, spread the generous amount of prepared chocolate frosting. then place another baked cake. also spread generous amount of prepared chocolate frosting. start spreading frosting over the sides of cake carefully. then with the help of offset spatula or a knife, spread the prepared frosting evenly. spin it around as you frost for an even coating finally give a final touch making sure there are no crumbs showing through the icing. at last cut the cake to desired shape and serve. store in refrigerator to serve later.